Five Themes of World Geography:
The two types of Location are:
Relative and Kinetic
Realistic and Exact 
Exact and Relative (c)
Longitude and Latitude
What two types of coordinates are used to measure Exact Location?
Latitude and Longitude (c)
Shortitude and Longitude
Exact and Relative
Latitude and Lateraltude
Which of the following would be an example of Exact Location?
I am currently located 2 million miles from the sun.
I am at the supermarket on 12th Avenue.
I am located at  approximately 40 degrees North, 75 degrees West. (c)
I am about 15 minutes away from the school.

What does the Theme “Place” describe?
An area’s latitude and longitude
What kind of people settled a particular area
The location of a particular area
An area’s human and physical features (c)
What is an example of a physical feature?
The Eiffel Tower
Rocky Mountains (c)
Prime Meridian
Oxidative Phosphorylation
What is an example of a human feature?
The Eiffel Tower (c)
Appalachian Mountains
Mount Everest
Pacific Ocean

True or False: Humans have changed the environment, and the environment has changed Humans as well.
True (c)
False
What is one way that humans have changed the environment?
Humans had to adapt to the colder temperatures of the ice age.
Humans farmed based on what crops were available to them.
Humans have cut down trees to accommodate their needs.
Humans formed countries that chose not to interact at all with the environment.


People move around the globe based on what factors?
What is easiest for them to live a good life
What resources a particular place has to offer
To share cultures and ideas
All of the Above
Which of the following is a true statement?
Resources do not exist on earth.
Resources are placed evenly throughout the globe.
Humans are placed evenly throughout the globe
Humans are placed unevenly throughout the globe

True or False: The borders humans place on maps define the physical characteristics of regions.
True
False
Guns, Germs, and Steel:
From where did Europe receive domesticated crops?
Southwest Asia
Africa
New Guinea
South America
What advantages did the Spaniards have over the Native Americans during their conquest?
Verbal language, ships, and intelligence
Written language, steel, and diseases
Hablo, espanol, tambien
Guns, medicine, and numbers
What are the three kinds of writing strategies?
One syllable, two syllables, and three syllables
alphabet, spoken, and written
Linear A, alphabet, and hieroglyphics
Alphabetic, logograms, and and Linear B
What is the order of society types from smallest to largest?
State, Chiefdom, Tribe, Band
Tribe, Band, Chiefdom, State
Band, Tribe, Chiefdom, State
Band, Chiefdom, Tribe, State
Why was China’s north-south crop diffusion able to occur?
Its north-south distances were smaller.
The weather patterns allowed for the same climate all along that longitude.
It didn’t occur.
None of the Above.
What ethnic group dominated southern Africa due to its invasion of the continent about 3,000 years ago?
Khoisan
Bantu
Pygmy
Niger-Congo
